Do you know him?
- Rambo...
John!
Where is the man called Rambo?
John Rambo!
I don't believe this.
So where did you come in from?
Washington.
- Good to see you again.
- Yeah. You, too.
You want to tell me about it?
About what?
About how yesterday
I see you stick fighting
in a warehouse in Bangkok.
- You saw that?
- Yeah.
And today I find you
working in a monastery.
They let me live here,
and I help out, fixing things.
And the stick fighting?
I just do that
for a little extra money.
Yeah... I saw you give it
to the monks.
You see a lot.
Colonel, who are they?
They're part of the reason I'm here.
Bob.
This is Robert Griggs.
He's a field officer
with our local embassy.
John Rambo.
Pleasure.
Well, you're sure not easy to find.
Why are you keepin' track?
Well, like the colonel says,
good men are hard to find.
John, I'd like you to take a look
at some of these photos.
I don't know how much you know
about Afghanistan.
Most people can't even find it
on a map.
But over two million civilians
mostly peasant farmers
and their families
have been systematically slaughtered
by invading Russian armies.
Every new weapon...
including chemical warfare
has been used
to eliminate these people.
And they've been very successful
on many levels.
I assume that you're out of touch
with the current status of the war.
But after nine years of fighting
the Afghan forces are now getting
shipments of Stinger missiles
and are beginning to hold their own
against air strikes.
Except for one region,
50 miles over the border.
Apparently, the Soviet commander
there is exceptionally brutal
as those photos indicate.
And he's managed to strangle off
all aid from the outside.
So we want to...
investigate the problem firsthand.
And what that's got to do with me?
They've asked me to go in.
You're not gonna do it?
Yes. And I want you
to come with me, John.
I put in my time.
What does that mean?
It means my war is over.
I thought you said
he was this great soldier.
Well, Colonel...
looks like we've got a long walk
down those stairs.
Don't be down on him.
He's just following orders.
This mission's important, John.
Do you really think
we're gonna make a difference?
If I didn't, I wouldn't be going.
- It didn't before.
- That was another time.
Come with me, John.
I don't know what you think
about this place, but I like it.
I like bein' here,
I like workin' here.
I like belonging to something.
You do belong into something.
Not this.
When are you gonna come full circle?
What are you talkin' about?
You said that your war is over.
I think the one out there is,
but not the one inside you.
I know the reasons you're here, John.
But it doesn't work that way.
You may try, but you can't get away
from what you really are.
- And what do you think I am?
- A full-blooded combat soldier.
Not anymore. I don't want it.
That's too bad,
'cause you're stuck with it.
Let me tell you a story, John.
There was a sculptor
and he found a stone,
a special stone.
He dragged it home
and he worked on it for months
until he finally finished.
When he was ready,
he showed it to his friends
and they said
he had created a great statue.
The sculptor said
he hadn't created anything.
The statue was always there.
He just cleared away
the small pieces.
We didn't make you
this fighting machine.
We just chipped away the rough edges.
You're always going to be
tearing away at yourself
until you come to terms
with what you are.
Until you come full circle.
I guess I'm not ready yet.
Well, I got to move.
Promise me you'll look me up
when you get Stateside, huh?
I promise.
Colonel...
I'm sorry.
But it's gotta end for me sometime.
I understand.
Take cover!
Drop your weapons
and remain where you are!
You cannot escape!
Drop your weapons!
You have no chance of escape!
Now!
Rambo.
Something went wrong.
What happened?
Soviets intercepted the team,
just over the border.
From what we've gathered,
Trautman and the rest of his party
have been taken
to the regional commandment post.
And what are you doing about it?
I can't do anything about it.
I'm sorry.
I just thought you should know.
What about me?
What about you?
Can you get me in?
You're not serious.
Oh, yeah, I'm serious.
It can't be done officially.
Make it unofficial.
If it can be done,
I want you to know upfront
that if you're captured,
or if any of this leaks
we'll deny any participation,
or even knowledge of your existence.
I'm used to it.
We'll get back.
You want to buy?
Many guns here.
No. I'm looking for Mousa Chanin.
- What's your name?
- John Rambo.
Wait here.
They sell many in Afghanistan.
Many land mines.
Land mines everywhere.
I am Mousa Chanin.
What is it you want?
I was sent by Griggs.
You do not look like men
Griggs sent before.
You not look like
you are with military.
I'm not.
What you are? A mercenary?
No.
You're not with military,
you're not mercenary? What are you?
Lost tourist?
I'm no tourist.
Sorry.
Now, do you know
where the American is?
Yes. In Soviet fort.
Near the village of Khost,
30 miles over border.
Mr. Griggs sent you
the supplies you asked for.
- You wish to see them now?
- Yeah.
Is this what you asked for?
Yeah.
Never see these things before.
What are these?
Detonators.
And this?
What is this for?
It's a blue light.
What does it do?
It turns blue.
I see.
Can you tell me
how many more men come with us?
There's no rescue team.
There's just me.
Just you? Come on, this is no good!
I cannot take only one man
to the fort.
You need more men to help.
Griggs said you'd take me in.
Take me in.
I am needed to take medical supplies.
If I not take it,
many people will die.
Do you understand?
Well, I do not know
who you really are
but by the way you look
I can see
you have no experience in war.
Do you?
Come on, do you?
I've fired a few shots.
"A few shots"?
Come on,
maybe you should go back home
and think it all over again.
For a very long time.
I did think it over.
You did?
Well, this is your choice.
But let me tell you,
you cannot get this American alone.
If you fail, do not blame me.
I will accept no responsibility.
Sounds familiar.
My name is Colonel Zaysen,
Regional Commander of this sector.
You realize you're the first
American captured in Afghanistan?
Congratulations.
I believe you're planning
to supply enemy rebel forces
with Stinger missiles,
intending to destroy Soviet aircraft.
If I'm gonna be interrogated
I wanna be interrogated
by your superiors.
Out here, I have no superiors.
I am in full command.
You are alone here.
Abandoned by your government.
What do you want?
Cooperation.
This sector has been
under total control
for over five years.
There is little more I can do here.
It is, as you say,
without challenges.
If you supply to me
worthy information
about most Stinger missiles
you're planning to deliver
it could provide a way out of this
for us both.
After all, in the end
what everyone really wants...
is peace.
The Kremlin's got a hell
of a sense of humor.
Please explain.
You talk peace and disarmament
to the world
and here you are,
wiping out a race of people.
We are wiping out no one.
I think you're too intelligent
to believe such absurd propaganda!
Now again, where are the missiles?
I don't know anything
about any missiles!
Of course you do!
But you do not seem to realize
I'm providing a way out for us both.
You expect sympathy?
You started this damn war,
now you have to deal with it!
And we will.
It is just a matter of time
before we achieve a complete victory.
You know there won't be a victory.
Every day,
your war machines lose ground
to a bunch of poorly-armed,
poorly-equipped freedom fighters!
The fact is that you underestimated
your competition.
If you studied your history
you'd know that these people
have never given up to anyone.
They'd rather die
than be slaves to an invading army.
You can't defeat a people like that.
We tried. We already had our Vietnam!
Now you're gonna have yours.
So, you wish to test me? Good.
This is Afghanistan.
Alexander the Great
tried to conquer this country
then Genghis Khan,
then the British, now Russia.
But Afghan people fight hard,
they never be defeated.
Ancient enemy make prayer
about these people.
Do you wish to hear?
Very good. It says...
"May God deliver us
from the venom of the cobra
teeth of the tiger,
and the vengeance of the Afghans."
Understand what this means?
That you guys don't take any shit.
Yes, something like this.
We go now.
In the north, there are many caves.
We will travel through them.
It'll be safer. We go.
This cave leads us
to the Valley of the Five Lions.
In ancient days,
the Afghan king was asked
to send 500 of his warriors
into battle.
He sent only five.
His greatest five, and they won.
He said, "It's better to send
five lions than 500 sheep."
- What do you think of this?
- I think the king was lucky.
Lucky, eh?
- How much longer till the village?
- About two hours.
Where in my sector
are the missiles being delivered?
I don't know.
You're a liar.
Where?
All right... I'll tell.
I knew you were lying.
Now, where are the missiles located?
Close.
How close?
In your ass.
You've tried my patience long enough.
I tried to be civilized.
The name John Rambo...
do you know it?
No?
He says there are plans
for a rescue attempt
with the help of some rebels.
He also says he knows
where this man is going.
We will welcome him.
This is the last village
in the valley.
About 100 men here.
There are a lot of kids here.
Yes, and they are good fighters, too.
I'll tell the leaders
you want to talk.
They've never seen men look like you.
These are Mujahideen horsemen.
There are 10,000 horsemen more
waiting at the border.
They are waiting to get weapons.
When they'll get it,
they'll come back here to fight.
Let's go to the hospital.
He's the only doctor for 500km.
The first medicine
they get in two months.
More gifts from the Soviets.
They look like toys,
but they're mines.
We teach the children not to touch,
some of them too late.
Who's that?
His name is Uri. He's Russian.
A deserter?
He calls himself a defector.
There are many like him.
He is the one who can help the most.
He knows the inside of the fort.
I think we should go now.
Mines start here
at 1m like this, then go 2m like this
and like this.
They have four towers, four guards
here... and here.
Where do they keep the prisoners?
Here.
If we get in there,
is there another way out?
Underground,
where is all the bad water.
I do not know words for this place.
He means sewer.
- Where is it?
- Here.
Outside, it goes there.
Guards patrol there.
I do not think you go this way.
Then we should go to the minefields.
They'd never expect it.
This cannot be done.
In there are many Spetsnaz commandos.
We are only this.
We've lost many men.
We lose more maybe if we go there.
I don't need many men.
What is it you want to do?
I need two men to help me
through the minefield
and two to help with the escape.
If this is done,
Soviets will come here like before
and more people will die.
I can't wait.
You must wait for help
the way we wait.
Then I'll go alone.
And you will die!
Then I die.
Wait!
Please don't go.
My name is Masoud.
You must not judge us
before you understand
why we are not ready to help.
Most of the Afghan people
are very strong
and we are determined
not to be driven from our land.
Our children die of disease,
mines, and poison gas.
And the women are raped and killed.
Last year, in the Valley of Laghman,
the next valley
6,000 Afghans were killed.
Pregnant women were cut with bayonets
and their babies
thrown into the fires.
This is done
so they will not have to fight
the next generation of Afghans.
Yet nobody sees anything,
or reads anything in the papers.
What you see here
are the Mujahideen soldiers.
Holy warriors.
To us, this war is a holy war.
And there is no true death
for a Mujahideen
because we have taken our last rites
and we consider ourselves
dead already.
To us, death for our land
and God is an honor.
So, my friend...
what we must do
is to stop this killing
of our women and children.
If getting this man free
so he can return to the free world
and tell what happens here,
is necessary
then of course we will help.
Leave us now,
so we may speak among ourselves
and find the best way
to free this man.
Thank you.
We thank you.
Don't worry, they will decide soon.
We have to get in there tonight.
What is your name?
This boy is very hard inside.
His parents were killed last year.
His brother died in the fort
where the American is.
He looks like a boy,
but he fights like a man.
- What is your name?
- Rambo.
- Where are you from?
- Arizona.
Arizona? How much days' walk?
About two years.
Two years...
- Are you a soldier?
- No more.
- I am a soldier.
- Yeah?
- Are you here to fight?
- No.
Are you scared?
What is this?
- It's a knife.
- Can I see this?
Sure.
Very good. Can I have it?
No.
- What is this?
- You want everything!
- This is for luck.
- What is luck?
Luck is...
Can I have it? I need luck.
So do I.
Look what a child.
Always like this.
Look there. It's the national sport.
Old insane game,
maybe 3,000 years old.
Look, they never stop playing it.
War, not war, they don't mind.
- You like it?
- I'll take football.
Football? What's football?
You play it with your foot?
Not really.
Come on... let's go!
- What are they saying?
- They want you to try it.
It's a way to welcome you
to be with them.
If you want to try, go ahead
but I am not responsible for it.
- I'll try it.
- Yes?
What are the rules?
Well, you have to take the sheep
once around
and then thrown it in the circle.
Why?
Because there is a circle there.
- That's it?
- That's it. Very simple.
Like football.
God must love crazy people.
- Why?
- He makes so many of them.
Take cover, take cover!
Move, move!
Now you see how it is here.
Somewhere in a war,
there's supposed to be honor.
Where is the honor here? Where?
We're taking the survivors
to the border. Are you coming?
I'm going to the fort.
Have you not seen enough death?
Go. Go while you can.
This is not your war.
It is now.
So be it.
We are good friends.
God willing.
I stay. I will show you the way.
I will go too.
No, you go with them.
I will not.
They killed all my family.
I want to fight!
Not with me.
You go.
Go on.
Why must you do this?
'Cause he'd do it for me.
Have you decided to talk?
No?
Very well.
Soon you will be my guest
down the hall.
Come on.
- Go back!
- No!
Go back!
Go on!
Stay here! Stay back.
I know this place. You need me!
I don't need you dead!
Now go back. You understand?
American?
Colonel...
John? How the hell
did you get in here?
- Can you move?
- You're damn right I can.
Let's go!
John, behind you!
Go!
John, get outta here!
Get the hell outta here!
Go on.
Over here!
Come on!
Help me!
Take him!
Come on!
Give me the boy.
Go!
- Come on.
- Okay.
Take the kid!
Get down!
Give me the boy!
Who is this terrorist?
What makes you so valuable to him?
This bastard
tried to destroy me tonight.
But he failed!
At sunrise, I will hunt him down
and have his skin
hanging on the wall!
- You don't have to hunt him.
- What?
He'll find you.
Are you insane?
One man against trained commandos?
Who do you think this man is? God?
No. God would have mercy. He won't.
It's all right. There's nobody there.
All right. This will hold a while.
What's the fastest way outta here?
Northwest.
There's a trail between mountains
about 3km from here.
The trail is very difficult.
- Now, you take the boy and go.
- I want to stay.
You can't.
You cannot go back there.
We must all go to Pakistan.
No, I gotta go back.
I know he's your friend,
but you can't do this!
You both will die.
For what? Come with us!
Just do what I say.
Let me have your gun.
All right, let's go.
Come on.
I see you again?
Sure.
Come on. Move...
Come on.
Can you fly that thing?
Let's find out.
Let's go!
Hurry... Get on board!
Shit!
Hold on!
Over there!
There!
Hold on!
Get him!
Take my hand!
We're going down!
Hold on!
- Come on, move out.
- Come on, move.
It's gonna blow.
Take what you can, John.
- Come on, move it...
- Go on!
All right, come on.
- We got to get to the border.
- We'll stay here.
We know where to go.
- Which direction, John?
- Northeast.
God willing.
Come on.
Hold it, John.
I gotta rest a minute.
How's the wound?
You taught us to ignore
the pain, didn't ya?
Is it working?
Not really.
Don't take it personally.
Thanks.
You go on ahead
and see if you can find some cover.
John!
That was close, John! How are you?
Well done.
We don't want to make it easy
for them. We'd better split up.
I'm sorry I got you into this, John.
No, you're not.
Are you listening?
Who are you?
Your worst nightmare.
That's good timing.
What are friends for?
You get back to the hole.
I'll cover you,
and see if there's any more left.
John!
Across the valley is the border.
We did it, John!
Yeah.
Wait.
What the hell is that?
The son of a bitch!
Do not try to retreat!
You cannot escape.
We will not attack if you do not run!
We do not want to hurt you.
Somehow I don't believe him.
I order you to come forward,
and you will be given a fair trial.
Drop your weapons,
and remain where you are.
You got any ideas?
Drop your weapons!
Surrounding them's out.
Hell of a time for humor, John.
Drop the weapons! Now!
You have no chance of escape.
Come forward!
I wish to take you back alive.
This is your last warning!
The choice is yours.
What do you say, John?
F**k 'em!
If we're gonna go, I wish we would've
taken that bastard with us!
What is that?
It's the rebels!
Come on!
John, get out of there!
John!
You're sure you don't want to stay?
You fight good for a tourist.
Maybe next time.
You want this back?
No. You keep it.
Can you not stay?
I've got to go.
- God willing.
- Goodbye.
Hard to believe, John.
What's that, sir?
Well, I hate to admit it
but the truth is,
I think we're getting soft.
Maybe just a little, sir.
Just a little.